###Afterwords
####by Jake Wilder-Smith

***

As I stood in my backyard, dressed in a black suit and a solemn stare, my six-year-old son carried in the empty casket and prepared to give the eulogy. He had studied the funeral orations of Pericles and the Ancient Romans in preparation for the task, the eulogies given for Bobbie Kennedy and Gandhi—he even branched out to the great Oscar speeches, just in case they had anything useful.

There were eight of us there around the gravesite, all in formal attire: my mother-in-law, our neighbors and their children, and the security guard for the English Department, Ed, whom my son insisted attend.

“He did a wonderful job with the yard,” Ed whispered. And he was right: around the small, shallow grave were dozens of bell jars with carefully placed dandelions (arranged by the son, picked by the father—he suggested we build a business out of it). We had lifted the coffee table out of the house and placed it beside the grave, with tea-lights surrounding a speaker producing a soundtrack of Cat Stevens.

Now, I’ll be honest: if I had taken more control of the planning process, it would have been a very different kind of birthday party. Less funeral, more bowling; less Ed the 60-year-old security guard from work, more Teddy the six-year-old from school. But this wasn’t a regular six-year-old, I reminded myself. Regular six-year-olds, I remembered, don’t hold funerals for abstractions.

\***

“Afterwards,” he said, interrupting the bedtime story I was reading to him as he fell asleep. “What is afterwards?”

“Oh, it just means after, really—nothing too special,” I responded.

“But after words? What is the after words?”

Exhausted, but delighted by his misunderstanding, I decided to play along.

“Yes,” I said, closing the book that lay in my lap. “Afterwords—it’s where something goes—an idea, an image, a person—when it can’t live in words anymore.”

“What is it like?”

“No one knows,” I said. “All we know is that the wind was once built up of all the meanings and inexpressible ideas, wisping them around across the world—and that became known as the Afterwords.”

He pondered this fact for a moment, and then looked up. “Will you tell it to me as a story?”

And that I couldn’t refuse.

“Before the world began,” I started, “before humans scattered the Earth, all that existed was the wind, blowing across a bare landscape. But back then there was no one to call it the wind; it just was. And in that wind was all the meaning in the world: there was love, hate, despair—”
[audio|auto|repeat](https://www.dropbox.com/s/drmgtfigx38i25s/06%20Where%20Do%20the%20Children%20Play_.mp3?dl=1)
“What about the taste of ice cream?” he interrupted.

“Yes, of course, even ice cream. Back then, all these things were woven into the fabric of the wind, and it would glide over the land and the trees and the sea—”

He interrupted again, big brown eyes attaching themselves to mine. “But who could have woven it?”

“Well . . . the Weaver of the Wind, of course. He wove all the meaning together before Time even existed. The wind would sweep the land, soaring high above and near the ground. It was constantly changing direction, changing form—ever moving, always growing. It was never the same and stretched in all directions.

“When the first human was born on Earth, he barely noticed it, only felt it sweep across the hairs on his arm and caress his cheek with a soft touch. He looked up, but seeing nothing, forgot.

“But when the firegold leaves began to fall from the trees, and snow powdered down from the skies, the wind swept them up in its powerful gusts. Suddenly, the human could see how the wind spoke through its movements, in a wild dance that followed no rules. The human watched the spectacle with shining eyes, frightened and amazed—but as he reached out to touch it, it was gone and the leaves, burnt orange, fell in a pile at his feet. He was crushed.

“From that point, the chase was on. Such beauty and wonder couldn’t escape him like that—it couldn’t just run away. He stood in wait, clay bowl and lid in hand. When he felt the breeze whisper its secrets across his neck, he turned around and slammed the gust into the clay bowl and sealed it tight. ‘There,’ he said. ‘I’ve got it.’

“Shortly after, though, he realized he didn’t have it. He had only one small fragment of it, and boxed up, it no longer moved in the beautiful way it once did. Perhaps it was too small a section, he thought. And so he built larger and larger containers. He began to forget the dance that lured him to capture the wind in the first place, and busied himself catching little bits and pieces of the breezes as they whooshed past.

“Soon, as more humans came to the earth, they pointed at his collection of containers with confusion. What did they hold, they asked him. He hadn’t particularly thought about it, to be honest, and so he pointed to one large bowl and said, ‘This is love,’ and turned to another and said, ‘This is hate.’ An awkwardly shaped container sat in the corner, and he pointed to it, and said, ‘This is the taste of ice cream.’ When they asked to see what was inside, he refused—he couldn’t let it escape, to billow out and rejoin the wind that rushed away as soon as it was near. But the human could not realize his mistake: he could never know how tiny a shard of the wind he had captured, and he could not know, either, that inside the bowls, a pressure was building, slowly but surely, and its contents were pushing against the sides. Soon—sooner than he could possibly know—the bowls would rupture and the fragments of meaning he stored would rush back into the gusts and the breezes out of his reach into the Afterwords as it surged around the earth.

“By this time, though, the human had gone from the world, and the others knew not what he had done. They only knew the names of each clay bowl as he instructed them, and as the bowls crumbled, the humans would replace them with clay bowls of identical size, but empty, remembering only their names. In a short time, nearly all the bowls had been replaced, and new ones with new names were being mass-manufactured in factories. There were so many now that it meant nothing when an old one broke from the pressure—it was quickly replaced with a copy, and forgotten. And this is why the Afterwords is such a secret: because most people have forgotten about what these containers once held, and remember only their names…”

When I finished, he was fast asleep, a curl of his chestnut hair swept across his face. I doubted he stayed awake for much of it, and scolded myself for getting lost in a world of my own, apart from his. But soon I found I was wrong, for every night afterwords, he demanded I tell it again.

One day, he came to me and announced, “I felt it.”

“Felt what?” I asked.

“Something get taken by the wind. I felt it twist in through the window pane right as I forgotten something important—a feeling, I think, or a picture—and it hovered over me and left.”

“What do you think you lost?”

“It’s gone now, that’s all I know, and I could feel it in the wind, traveling and changing and I could feel like I let go of something.”

“Do you miss it?”

Looking down, he replied. “Yes.”

***
[audio|auto|repeat](https://www.dropbox.com/s/v4pol41a550g81d/Wallowing%20Under%20the%20Willow%20mp3.mp3?dl=1)
[video|onscroll|repeat](https://www.dropbox.com/s/eew3936oyv4w4rg/Fourminutetrim.webm?dl=1)


***

Weeks later, we were outside playing catch. He hated to watch sports, to play them too, but he loved to watch the football spiral in the air, hanging perfectly still for a moment in the arched path between us.

I was about to throw when he yelled, informally, “Can we have a funeral?”

I stopped. A funeral? I wondered. “A funeral for what?”

“For what the wind took back.”

I threw the ball and the wind grabbed it, sending it higher and farther than I could have on my own. He ran back to catch it.

“Sure,” I said.


***

The ceremony continued. The shoebox-turned-casket was placed in the grave, a hole poked through its center to free its contents and invite the earth in. The neighbors’ children, all roughly his age, had run off to explore the yard. He didn’t seem to mind.

He walked to the head of the grave and looked up to deliver his oration. After those weeks of studying Pericles and Paltrow alike, the moment arrived.

“First,” he said, soft and sure, “I’d like to thank the Academy.” He looked at me for approval, and I nodded in response. He had not expressed interest in any help with the eulogy, and as I felt the other eyes widen in my direction, I wished I had forced the matter.

“We are gathered here today,” he continued, “both to grieve and celebrate the passing on of that which has left us. All of us. We are now left with a feeling like when you realize you’ve forgotten something inside, but can’t remember just what it is. So you search for it without knowing what you’re searching for as the sun dries up and the air coldens. We miss it more for not knowing what it is. It is now in the air around us, not gone, but like the water that waits in the air to become a droplet on a glass, we cannot see it or touch it and it has left us. It is truer for this, and happier, so we must not miss it too much. But we must remember the empty space it leaves behind, and remember that it is somewhere freer now, where it can move. It is free to play whenever it wants and doesn’t have to sit still or wait in its room for the daylight to come in long strips of light. Afterwords,” he paused, his voice wavering, “is everything.” A silence stretched out, and for a moment, it seemed as though the eulogy had ended. But still he continued, suddenly mechanical and rehearsed. “And now that we have brought to a close our lam-ent-ations for what has left us, we may depart. Please know, however, that there are finger sandwiches that will be brought out im-mi-nently, and that I’d like to acknowledge that none of this would have been possible without my dad, who picked the dandelions when I had other things to attend to. Amen.”

I murmured a soft amen, as did the others, with the exception of Ed, who, full of enthusiasm for the event, bellowed it out. It was in this moment that I realized how glad I was that he had insisted Ed come, because to be honest, I found I had a new appreciation for the guy. I always said hello, asked him how he was, even helped him with a crossword or two—but as I looked around at my neighbors, herding their children and plotting their escape from the reception, and my mother-in-law, talking loudly on the phone with god knows who, I realized he was the only one enjoying the event. As I surveyed the scene, forms of inattention sprouting across my lawn, Ed came over.

“He’s a good kid,” he said, slapping his hand on my back a little too hard.

“Ed—I so appreciate that you showed up, I know it’s your day off and you really didn’t need to, I hope you knew—”

“Wes, please—when a kid insists you come to his birthday party, you show up, whether it’s a paint-your-own-pottery studio or a funeral for an abstraction slash mid-childhood existential crisis. That whole thing was trippy as fuck, but it was pretty fantastic, Wes, he’s got a hell of a mind on him. And you’re a pal for helping him put together the whole thing. Especially,” he said in a whisper, “with those prissy fucks of neighbors staring down your neck. I’d like to see them eat a finger-sandwich.”

Just then, as though lured in by the disdain, the neighbors began to approach, slithering over from their child-herding exercises.
[audio|auto|repeat](https://www.dropbox.com/s/doilxpdwy1nr8ig/01%20The%20Wind.mp3?dl=1)

“Wes—what a fantastically interesting idea for a party,” the mother said. “I’m telling you, I’ve tried to think of any party ideas that haven’t already been done around the neighborhood, and just keep on coming back to the old bowling or pool parties, like nothing else exists! It’s very hard to have an original idea, and you and your son have certainly done that. I did want to ask, though, and I hope I’m not prying, if this might be about the passing of—”

I stepped toward my son as he pattered down the steps, tray in hand, and she paused. As he came forward with the tray, a rushing sound emerged from the forest behind the house in a heavy breath, an accelerating exhale. All of a sudden, a large gust of wind coiled through the yard like a helix, whipping about the fallen leaves and snuffing the tea-lights that sat burning on the table. The neighbor slithered back to my mother-in-law, and they spoke now in stage-whispers, as though they didn’t even notice the sudden intensity of the breeze. But I watched as the wind encircled him and wrapped itself around him, blowing the long chestnut strands of hair back and showing all his face, his borrowed features . . . I caught Ed’s eye, and saw him seeing it too, something changing with that gust of wind, something subtle but essential…
